MonitorQBittorrent/README.md, before:

# qBittorrent Monitor Script

This script monitors qBittorrent status and automatically restarts it if it stops running.

## Files

- `qBittorrent.sh` - Original QNAP qBittorrent control script
- `monitorqBittorrent.sh` - Monitoring script that checks qBittorrent status every 30 seconds

## How to Use

1. **Transfer both scripts to your QNAP server**:
   ```bash
   scp qBittorrent.sh monitorqBittorrent.sh admin@your-qnap-ip:/path/to/your/directory/
   ```

2. **Make the scripts executable**:
   ```bash
   chmod +x qBittorrent.sh monitorqBittorrent.sh
   ```

3. **Run the monitoring script**:
   ```bash
   ./monitorqBittorrent.sh
   ```

4. **To run in background** (recommended):
   ```bash
   nohup ./monitorqBittorrent.sh > monitor.log 2>&1 &
   ```

## What the Monitor Does

- **Every 30 seconds**: Checks if qBittorrent is running
- **If running**: Displays uptime in a human-readable format (days, hours, minutes)
- **If not running**: Attempts to start qBittorrent using the original script
- **Colored output**: 
  - Green: qBittorrent is running
  - Red: qBittorrent is not running
  - Yellow: Attempting to start qBittorrent
  - Blue: Informational messages

## Example Output

```
[2024-01-15 10:30:15] Starting qBittorrent monitoring...
[2024-01-15 10:30:15] Checking every 30 seconds
[2024-01-15 10:30:15] qBittorrent script location: /path/to/qBittorrent.sh
[2024-01-15 10:30:15] PID file location: /var/run/qBittorrent.pid

[2024-01-15 10:30:15] qBittorrent is running (PID: 1234) - Uptime: 2 days, 5 hours, 30 minutes
[2024-01-15 10:30:45] qBittorrent is running (PID: 1234) - Uptime: 2 days, 5 hours, 30 minutes
[2024-01-15 10:31:15] qBittorrent is not running - attempting to start...
[2024-01-15 10:31:15] Attempting to start qBittorrent...
[2024-01-15 10:31:20] qBittorrent start command executed successfully
[2024-01-15 10:31:25] qBittorrent is now running (PID: 5678)
```

## Configuration

You can modify these variables in the script:
- `CHECK_INTERVAL`: How often to check (default: 30 seconds)
- `PIDF`: Location of the PID file (default: /var/run/qBittorrent.pid)
- `PROCESS_NAME`: Name of the qBittorrent process (default: qbittorrent-nox)

## Stopping the Monitor

To stop the monitoring script:
```bash
# Find the process ID
ps aux | grep monitorqBittorrent.sh

# Kill the process
kill <PID>
```

Or if running in foreground, simply press `Ctrl+C`.

## Notes

- The script automatically detects its own location and looks for `qBittorrent.sh` in the same directory
- It monitors qBittorrent by checking for the process name only (simplified and reliable)
- The uptime calculation works on most Linux systems and uses `/proc/PID` information
- Process detection uses `ps aux | grep` to find the `qbittorrent-nox` process (compatible with QNAP systems)

Commit message:

Fix uptime tracking reliability in monitoring script
- Replace unreliable /proc/PID and ps parsing with internal tracking
- Add global variables CURRENT_PID and START_TIME for uptime calculation
- Uptime now starts counting when process is first detected by the script
- Reset tracking when process is not found or PID changes (restart detected)
- Fixes random uptime resets to 0 minutes on QNAP systems

The previous method using system process start times was inconsistent on QNAP
systems, causing uptime to randomly reset. The new approach provides stable
and accurate uptime tracking from the monitoring script's perspective.

MonitorQBittorrent/README.md, after:

# qBittorrent Monitor Script

This script monitors qBittorrent status and automatically restarts it if it stops running.

## Files

- `qBittorrent.sh` - Original QNAP qBittorrent control script
- `monitorqBittorrent.sh` - Monitoring script that checks qBittorrent status every 30 seconds

## How to Use

1. **Transfer both scripts to your QNAP server**:
   ```bash
   scp qBittorrent.sh monitorqBittorrent.sh admin@your-qnap-ip:/path/to/your/directory/
   ```

2. **Make the scripts executable**:
   ```bash
   chmod +x qBittorrent.sh monitorqBittorrent.sh
   ```

3. **Run the monitoring script**:
   ```bash
   ./monitorqBittorrent.sh
   ```

4. **To run in background** (recommended):
   ```bash
   nohup ./monitorqBittorrent.sh > monitor.log 2>&1 &
   ```

## What the Monitor Does

- **Every 30 seconds**: Checks if qBittorrent is running
- **If running**: Displays uptime in a human-readable format (days, hours, minutes)
- **If not running**: Attempts to start qBittorrent using the original script
- **Colored output**: 
  - Green: qBittorrent is running
  - Red: qBittorrent is not running
  - Yellow: Attempting to start qBittorrent
  - Blue: Informational messages

## Example Output

```
[2024-01-15 10:30:15] Starting qBittorrent monitoring...
[2024-01-15 10:30:15] Checking every 30 seconds
[2024-01-15 10:30:15] qBittorrent script location: /path/to/qBittorrent.sh
[2024-01-15 10:30:15] PID file location: /var/run/qBittorrent.pid

[2024-01-15 10:30:15] qBittorrent is running (PID: 1234) - Uptime: 2 days, 5 hours, 30 minutes
[2024-01-15 10:30:45] qBittorrent is running (PID: 1234) - Uptime: 2 days, 5 hours, 30 minutes
[2024-01-15 10:31:15] qBittorrent is not running - attempting to start...
[2024-01-15 10:31:15] Attempting to start qBittorrent...
[2024-01-15 10:31:20] qBittorrent start command executed successfully
[2024-01-15 10:31:25] qBittorrent is now running (PID: 5678)
```

## Configuration

You can modify these variables in the script:
- `CHECK_INTERVAL`: How often to check (default: 30 seconds)
- `PIDF`: Location of the PID file (default: /var/run/qBittorrent.pid)
- `PROCESS_NAME`: Name of the qBittorrent process (default: qbittorrent-nox)

## Stopping the Monitor

To stop the monitoring script:
```bash
# Find the process ID
ps aux | grep monitorqBittorrent.sh

# Kill the process
kill <PID>
```

Or if running in foreground, simply press `Ctrl+C`.

## Notes

- The script automatically detects its own location and looks for `qBittorrent.sh` in the same directory
- It monitors qBittorrent by checking for the process name only (simplified and reliable)
- The uptime calculation uses internal tracking - starts counting when the process is first detected
- Process detection uses `ps aux | grep` to find the `qbittorrent-nox` process (compatible with QNAP systems)
- Uptime resets when the process PID changes (indicating a restart)
